# ReactJS example using the Google Maps widget
ReactJS is a Javascript library for building user interfaces. The way it ties in with HTML makes it very easy to create interactive components that can easily be reused among different locations within your application. Typically, people build Single Page Applications (SPA) using React. This way, much of the logic required to display a webpage is brought to the visitors’ browser. Instead of HTML, the web server often returns JSON and React grabs this to build the HTML within the browser.

Learning a new powerful library such as React always take some time. One of the topics people seem to be having a hard time to get their heads around is how to use React together with an external widget. This “external” widget is managed outside of React’s state and changes in that widget are not reflected in a React component. In general, when working with widgets you have two options;

Completely rebuild the widget in React. A widget executes API calls to a backend server. If you can perform these API calls yourself you can also build the logic of the widget yourself in React. This is definitely the method that keeps you closest to React but will also bring you (much) more work. Of course, if someone else already rebuild the widget in React and shared it online (such as through npmjs), you can use that version.
Wrap a React component around the widget. If you can subscribe to events published by the widget you can duplicate the state in React and work this component as you normally would.
